So each of these layers
are made up of three parts.
I break that down just with assets,
processes and documentation, so
we'll take a quick look at each of those.
So assets are the tangible things
that make each layer very usable, so
here's the kinds of things
that I'm talking about.
Things like UX and design files,
a repository somewhere in Git is an asset,
right?
Component files in that Git repository
could be something that you
consider an asset.
Any image files or font files, anything
that's taken up space somewhere, really.
So a couple examples at the foundations
layer, you might have a set of
logos that are intended for use in your
digital interface of some kind, right?
At the tokens layer, you may have taken
that sorta abstract set of tokens and
transformed that into a file that
can be pulled into a web project.
In this case, we're looking at some
CSS primitive color tokens, so
this is something that's an artifact,
an asset of the the token build process.
At the core systems layer,
you may be using some of those tokens to
sorta offer, as a very simple example.
But to offer a layout system,
in this case it's just a little sass mix
in that you could use to help with layout.
So this is an example of kinda bringing
design decisions together into
a system of some kind.
And then of course at
the components layer,
just a simple example would be
the button in Figma, right?
So this is a very tangible, it's
an asset a designer can use in a tool.
So just remember,
these are the really tangible
things that a design system offers.
And of course,
there's more than assets, so
let's talk a little bit about processes.
So the processes around
your system are what define
human behaviors as you work on and
with the design system.
These tend to fall into
a few kinda big categories.
Communication is a big one,
because your design system is bringing
together so many disciplines.
We have to put some real process in
place for how and when we communicate,
we'll talk a little bit more
about that a little later.
Governance and
testing becomes a huge deal,
because with this amazing offering that
you're giving, comes a lot of risk too.
If you've got a ton of folks using your
system and you're giving them faulty
code or stuff that doesn't work well,
that comes with that risk, right?
So we need to make sure we've got really
good process to find around governance.
What's the quality level that we ascribe
to for everything that we release, and
how do we test that and validate that?
This also includes how we might go
around about prioritizing some work,
defining roadmaps, that kinda thing.
Contribution processes, is kinda where we
get into setting your expectations for
what it looks like for
folks who are not on the design system
team to contribute back to it in some way.
And if you want them to do that more than
one time, you should probably be very
clear with what that process is
gonna be like for them [LAUGH].
As the system evolves,
synchronization becomes something,
we were talking earlier about,
React and Angular and maybe view and
all these different in this case,
development frameworks.
Well, when you've got all of
these different frameworks that
you're supporting,
what is the process look like for
you to keep all of those assets in sync,
right?
This is a challenge, a real challenge,
is hard to do that in an automated way.
So we have to put some processes in place
to make sure that we're at least being
transparent about the state
of each of those things.
And we also prioritize those
synchronization tasks into our backlog.
Deprecation as your system matures, you're
gonna reach a point where you realize
there's a better way to do a thing.
And so you're probably gonna need to
take something out of the system.
That comes with a whole [LAUGH] other set
of processes where you've gotta think
about the communication and how you're
working with the folks you're supporting
as subscribers to remove
something from their products.
And then of course release and versioning,
are you choosing to do that at the system
level or at the component level?
There's lots of ways to do this.
A lot of that just depends on
the architecture of your products and
what your subscribers specifically need.
Extension and variation, it's guaranteed
that your system is not gonna do
everything perfectly for
everybody [LAUGH].
So, what happens when those subscriber
teams needed to do something that it
doesn't do.
Can they take us peace and
extended, have you enabled that?
What's the process around how that works?
And then onboarding and I mean this in a
couple different ways, of course you wanna
work to onboard new subscribers to using
the system that's a big part of the job.
But also as new employees join to jump
onto product teams or feature teams,
how do you as the design system team
help support those folks becoming new
employees?
Cuz there's a lot of benefit to having
them learn how the system works before
they move into doing their product work.
So let's take a look at
a few examples of these.
At the foundations layer, you probably
will wanna define a process at some point
in health or in the life of the system.
For how there's communication between
the brand and the design system teams.
If we know,
the system has to be fed by things
that are happening at the brand level.
Well, we need to know when things change,
right?
That has to be reflected in the system, so
we need to establish those communication
processes with that organization too.
At the tokens layer, and we talked
a little bit about the idea that,
there's a lot of power with tokens.
But what happens when somebody needs to
change the value of one of those colors or
one of the padding that could have
a ripple impact throughout your products?
So there's a lot of power, there's
a lot of risk, to alleviate the risk,
we think through the process for
when something like this changes.
At the core systems layer,
deprecating an old core system.
I mean, when I was doing web stuff back in
the day, it was all float based, right?
So, my layouts were all float left,
clear, all kinds of stuff, right?
So, these days, there's way much
better options for doing layout,
you've got all kinds of
options on the web and CSS.
So, in that scenario, if I had built
a layout system using floats, well,
it's probably at this point way
past time to deprecate that and
offer them a better way to handle layout.
But that process is removing something
from a team that trusted you when
they became a subscriber.
So you have to have a process in place
to maintain that trust through changing
the stuff they're using.
This kinda thinking, shows that you're
trustworthy or part of the organization.
And then at the components layer,
we talked briefly about contribution but
one example might be.
Hey, this thing you offered me didn't
do everything I needed it to do.
So I extended it and I'd like, I think
other teams could benefit from that.
So, let's talk about how we get that
integrated back into the system,
of course,
these are just a few examples, right?
And you're probably, well,
I can guarantee you, you're not gonna
start with all of these processes defined.
It's totally okay, it's very natural for
these things to kinda evolve as the system
matures, and as you need them, right?
Deprecation is not gonna be something you
need in early stage of your design system.
But as that becomes a need for you,
it's worth it to go ahead and document,
work with those teams
to define the process.
All right, so that's processes,
let's talk briefly about documentation.
So documentation is really simply just
an explanation of why something is
the way it is.
And it's usually a breakdown of how and
when, and
a lot of times when not to use a thing.
Typically answers these
kinds of questions.
So what is it that we believe about
a thing, or what is it defining it?
Or when should I use and
not use a thing, who owns this?
Give me some examples of a thing in use.
And if you go look at
documentation on websites,
you'll see these specific questions
being answered kinda all over the place.
So let's take a look at
a few examples here.
So at the foundations layer,
we may want to document the digital
product team's point of view on color.
How is it that we think about color,
how do we use colors together?
How do we consider color
in terms of accessibility?
Things like this, and
if we look just briefly,
this is a screenshot from IBM Carbon.
And this is just their doc site,
where they're talking a little bit about
the anatomy of color in their interfaces.
And so,
you can see this is just an overview
of how color anatomy works in Carbon.
At the tokens layer, we may have
an explanation on how to name tokens.
And that's just because naming [LAUGH]
tokens is notoriously hard like
anything, right?
Naming stuff, it's always hard,
especially challenging for
tokens because we tend to sorta
break these into multiple layers.
And as an example again, from carbon,
here's a screenshot from their Doc's site.
Where they're just showing
the breakdown of token naming,
why is it that we've chosen
to name a thing in this way?
What's cool about this is, it helps those
subscribers to understand every single
token, if you know this,
every token makes sense, right?
You can look at the name of the token and
understand the intent,
which is I think a really helpful thing.
So, they've taken the time to go ahead and
document that here.
At the core systems layer, we might have
some documentation around how to use one
of those core systems,
in this case a theming system.
So again, just from Carbon,
an example where,
they have taken their theming system and
provided some really good documentation.
Around how you can actually implement that
core system in the interface work that
you're doing on a product.
And then at the component layer,
of course, let's break down the pieces and
parts of a specific component.
So again, from Carbon just as a great
example, they've got a really nice section
on the anatomy of a button that just
gives names to every little piece, right?
It helps us to clarify the language we're
using when we're talking about a specific
component.
Super helpful for those who are planning
work around this kinda component or
even just hoping to use it
in their interface work.
Of course, there's a lot of other
things that will need to be
documented, but
it's helpful to see a few examples here.